WebAuthenticationBroker implementation (#5515)
unoplatform/uno: doc/articles/features/open-id-connect.md

> The code of this article can be found in the Uno Samples at the following address:
> https://github.com/unoplatform/Uno.Samples/tree/master/UI/Authentication.OidcDemo

## Limitations

* **Not all platforms yet**: The `WebAuthenticationBroker` is not yet supported on all platforms yet. For Uno 3.6 it is implemented only on WebAssembly, iOS and MacOS.
* **Return URI on WebAssembly**: Because of browser security restrictions, on WebAssembly, the return url must be on the same origin than the application. On other platforms the best approach is to use a custom protocol scheme (like `my-application:`). For most applications, you may simply use the automatic discovery of return urls, which will use the [`WebAuthenticationBroker.GetCurrentApplicationCallbackUri()` method](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/uwp/api/windows.security.authentication.web.webauthenticationbroker.getcurrentapplicationcallbackuri).

> * **Browser Anti-Popup Protection**: On WebAssembly, a foreign/public web site is usually used to authenticate the user. Doing this without losing the application context requires the opening of a new browser window. To ensure the window will open on all browsers without being denied, this one **must be opened using the handling of a user interaction**. For this reason the IdentityModel.OidcClient's _automatic mode_ can't be used because it's doing async processing (fetching the discovery endpoint) before opening the authentication browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Browser Anti-Popup Protection**: On WebAssembly, a foreign or public web site is usually used to authenticate the user. Doing this without losing the application context requires to open a new browser window. To ensure the window will open on all browsers without being denied, it **must be opened using the handling of a user interaction**. For this reason the IdentityModel.OidcClient's _automatic mode_ cannot be used because it is doing async processing (fetching the discovery endpoint) before opening the authentication browser.
```

## Demo Endpoint

This code uses the _IdentityServer_ demonstration endpoint with the following parameters:

| Field     | Value                                     |
| --------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| Authority | `https://demo.itentityserver.io`          |
| ClientId  | `interactive.confidential`                |
| Secret    | `secret`                                  |
| Scopes    | `openid profile email api offline_access` |

> >  Note: this endpoint allows any return uris. It's acceptable for demo purposes, but production application will usually requires to register your return addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>  Note: this endpoint allows any return URIs. It is acceptable for demo purposes, but a production application will usually require to register return addresses.
```

## Step 0 - Install Uno + Create an Application

Please refer to the [Getting Started documentation](../get-started.md) to install Uno and create a new application. For the sample below, an application named `OidcDemo` has been created.

For platforms supporting it, the custom protocol "oidc-auth:" will be used.

## Step 1 - Add Reference to OidcClient package

Add the package [`IdentityModel.OidcClient`](https://www.nuget.org/packages/IdentityModel.OidcClient) to all relevant _head_ projects of your solution.

## Step 2 - Prepare for Return Uri

**iOS & MacOS**

Add the `oidc-auth:` custom scheme in you `Info.plist` file.

``` csharp
<key>CFBundleURLTypes</key>
<array>
	<dict>
		<key>CFBundleURLName</key>
		<string>Authentication Callback</string>
		<key>CFBundleURLSchemes</key>
		<array>
			<string>oidc-auth</string>
		</array>
	</dict>
</array>
```

> Alternatively, you can use the editor integrated in Visual Studio to set it, in the _advanced_ tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use integrated editor in Visual Studio to set it, in the **advanced** tab:
```

![Return Url in iOS](../Assets/features/authenticationbroker/return-url-editor.png)

**UWP**

> There's nothing special for UWP. Any return url will work.  You can force it to `oidc-auth:` if you want, but you won't have any special registration to do to support it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's nothing special for UWP as any return url will work.  You can force it to `oidc-auth:` as needed, but there is no special registration needed to support it.
```

**WebAssembly**

> There's nothing special for UWP. The default _return uri_ of the platform (`WebAuthenticationBroker.GetCurrentApplicationCallbackUri()`) will work with this sample and will default to `<origin>/authentication-callback`. It should be something like `http://localhost:5000/authentication-callback` when running locally using Kestrel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's nothing special for WebAssembly. The default _return URI_ of the platform (`WebAuthenticationBroker.GetCurrentApplicationCallbackUri()`) will work with this sample and will default to `<origin>/authentication-callback`. It should be something like `http://localhost:5000/authentication-callback` when running locally using Kestrel.
```

## Step 4 - Prepare the UI

Add the following button in your application:

> ``` xml
> <StackPanel Orientation="Horizontal" Spacing="5">
> 	<Button Click="SignIn_Clicked" x:Name="btnSignin" IsEnabled="False">Sign In</Button>
>     <Button Click="SignOut_Clicked" x:Name="btnSignout" IsEnabled="False">Sign Out</Button>
> </StackPanel>
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``` xml
<StackPanel Orientation="Horizontal" Spacing="5">
	<Button Click="SignIn_Clicked" x:Name="btnSignin" IsEnabled="False">Sign In</Button>
	<Button Click="SignOut_Clicked" x:Name="btnSignout" IsEnabled="False">Sign Out</Button>
</StackPanel>
```
```

## Step 5 - Prepare the requesting code

Add the following code to the main page of your application:

``` csharp
// Put this code in class of the MainPage.xaml.cs

public MainPage()
{
	this.InitializeComponent();
	PrepareClient();
}

private OidcClient _oidcClient;
private AuthorizeState _loginState;
private Uri _logoutUrl;

private async void PrepareClient()
{
	var redirectUri = WebAuthenticationBroker.GetCurrentApplicationCallbackUri().OriginalString;

	// Create options for endpoint discovery
	var options = new OidcClientOptions
	{
		Authority = "https://demo.identityserver.io",
		ClientId = "interactive.confidential",
		ClientSecret = "secret",
		Scope = "openid profile email api offline_access",
		RedirectUri = redirectUri,
		PostLogoutRedirectUri = redirectUri,
		ResponseMode = OidcClientOptions.AuthorizeResponseMode.Redirect,
		Flow = OidcClientOptions.AuthenticationFlow.AuthorizationCode
	};

>     // Create the client. In production application, this is often created and stored

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Create the client. In a production application, this is often created and stored
```

    // directly in the Application class.
	_oidcClient = new OidcClient(options);

    // Invoke Discovery and prepare a request state, containing the nonce.
    // This is done here to ensure the discovery mecanism is done before
    // the user clicks on the SignIn button. Since the opening of a web window
    // should be done during the handling of a user interaction (here it's the button click),
    // it will be too late to reach the discovery endpoint.
    // Not doing this could trigger popup blockers mechanisms in browsers.
	_loginState = await _oidcClient.PrepareLoginAsync();
    btnSignin.IsEnabled = true;

    // Same for logout url.
    _logoutUrl = new Uri(await _oidcClient.PrepareLogoutAsync(new LogoutRequest()));
    btnSignout.IsEnabled = true;
}
```

## Step 6 - Proceed to authentication

Add following button handlers:

``` csharp
private async void SignIn_Clicked(object sender, RoutedEventArgs e)
{
    var startUri = new Uri(_loginState.StartUrl);

> 	// Important: there should be NO await before calling .AuthenticateAsync() - at least
> 	// on WebAssembly, in order to prevent trigering the popup blocker mechanisms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	// Important: there should be NO await before calling .AuthenticateAsync() - at least
	// on WebAssembly, in order to avoid triggering the popup blocker mechanisms.
```

    var userResult = await WebAuthenticationBroker.AuthenticateAsync(WebAuthenticationOptions.None, startUri);
 
	if(userResult.ResponseStatus != WebAuthenticationStatus.Success)
    {
        // Error or user cancellation
        return;
    }

    // User authentication process completed successfully.
    // Now we need to get authorization tokens from the response
    var authenticationResult = await _oidcClient.ProcessResponseAsync(userResult.ResponseData, _loginState);
 	

>  	if(authenticationResult.IsError)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	if(authenticationResult.IsError)
```

    {
        var errorMessage = authenticationResult.Error;
        // TODO: do something with error message
        return;
    }

>  	// That's completed. Here you have to token, ready to do something

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 	// The authentication completed. The token is available below, ready to be used for API calls
```

 	var token = authenticationResult.AccessToken;
 	var refreshToken = authenticationResult.RefreshToken;

	// TODO: make something useful with the tokens
}

private async void SignOut_Clicked(object sender, RoutedEventArgs e)
{

> 	// Important: there should be NO await before calling .AuthenticateAsync() - at least
> 	// on WebAssembly, in order to prevent trigering the popup blocker mechanisms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	// Important: there should be no await before calling .AuthenticateAsync() - at least
	// on WebAssembly, in order to prevent triggering the popup blocker mechanisms.
```

	await WebAuthenticationBroker.AuthenticateAsync(WebAuthenticationOptions.None, _logoutUrl);
}
```

## Step 7 - Finalize & Compile

**IMPORTANT FOR WEBASSEMBLY**

On WebAssembly, it's important to configure the linker to prevent the removal of some important part of the _OIDC Connect_ client library:

`LinkerConfig.xml`:

``` xml
<linker>
  <assembly fullname="My.Oidc.Client.App.Wasm" />
  <assembly fullname="Uno.UI" />

>   <!-- ADD THE FOLLOWING 2 LINES -->
>   <assembly fullname="IdentityModel" />
>   <assembly fullname="System.IdentityModel.Tokens.Jwt" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <!-- Begin Required for OIDC Connect -->
  <assembly fullname="IdentityModel" />
  <assembly fullname="System.IdentityModel.Tokens.Jwt" />
  <!-- End Required for OIDC Connect -->
```
